# Practical Data Science

University of Illinois, Research Park    
Instructor: Robert J. Brunner    
Spring 2015  

-----

### Orientation Week :  
 
Install the [Docker Engine](Week0/Docker.md) and the Docker container
built for this _Practical Data Science_ course. You also should visit
the course Piazza.

### Week 1: Data Science at the Command Line:  
 
Use the Docker technology by working at the Unix command prompt within
the course Docker container in interactive mode. This will focus on
using Unix command line tools and techniques to work with data in the
BASH shell

### Week 2: Practical IPython:  

Learn how to use the IPython notebook by using the course Docker
container in server mode. Also learn basic Python programming, python
data types, and file I/O, before finishing with a quick overview of the
numpy and scipy libraries.

### Week 3: Exploring Data Through Visualizations:  
 
Learn how to make data visualization by using Python, primarily from
within the IPython notebook by using matplotlib and seaborn. This will
include a discussion of scatter plots, linear regression and plotting,
histograms, box plots, and other advanced visualization concepts.

### Week 4: Using Python DataFrames (Pandas):  

Learn about the _Data Frame_ concept and how to use it within Python by
using the Pandas library. This will include ways to load and work with
large tabular data, and to performa basic data operations like cleaning,
transforming, merging, and reshaping.

### Week 5: Using Databases:  

Learn about database technology, before specifically focusing on
relational database management systems. This will include learning how
to create database, and SQL DDL and DML to create, insert, update and
delete data. This will conclude with a discussion of accessing a
database from Python.

### Week 6: Data Acquisition:  

Learn about acquiring data from diverse sources including webpages,
online repositories, and social media. This will require a discussion of
web scraping, DOM tress, and JSON.

### Week 7: Statistical & Machine Learning:  
 
Review basic statistics and probability and learn how to compute
different random distributions  by using numpy and scipy routines. Next,
learn about machine learning and basic approaches to perform machine
learning by using the scikit_learn library in Python.

### Week 8: Data Intensive Computing:  

Learn about basic concepts in high performance computing and how to
perform them in Python. Next, learn about cloud computing, including how
Docker technology integrates into commercial clouds. Finally, a
discussion of the standard Hadoop platform and its capabilities.

-----

The _Practical Data Science_ course [License](LICENSE.md)

-----
